# Goals and Expectations

The goal of this research group is to study our topics of interest in a passionate yet humane way. We strive for scientific excellence meaning we are clear, thorough and methodical with our science, of course. However, the most important thing in the lab is you and your mental and emotional health. This means that, while I expect you to be an integral and complete scientist, I also immensely value you as a human being. Failures and all.

In addition, as a community I expect a largely collaborative research group. While each project may have and independent leader, we strive in our differences and our knowledge. Ask for help, share your results and your concerns, don’t be afraid of failing but be ready to learn from your mistakes, and celebrate and use your community of the lab (and the department) as your academic (and personal, if you so wish) support structure.

Finally, as a general note, I expect all members in the lab to do the following:

1. Foster and nurture your scientific motivation! I understand that working with animal poop is probably not the way you thought you life is going to be. However, think about the beautiful things we can find there! All the diversity and ecological interactions that reflect so many facets of life…

2. Read and try to stay up to date with the scientific literature. There are a list of papers that are mandatory to read as part of being in the lab (Google docs folder I shared with you when you join the lab). In addition, start creating a mendeley/EndNote/Zotero list of papers of interest that you read (or at least skim in depth) and can use for your publications and presentations

3. Learn the basic protocols for your research project. We have a folder with protocols in the Google Drive folder that includes the basic elements all members of the lab should know, so please study them before attempting to replicate them. ASK FOR HELP!! Either me or the more senior students already have experience with these methods, so ask us to guide you through them

4. Maintain a complete, well annotated and super detailed laboratory notebook. Make sure to be very very detailed: What protocol did you use? Did you modify it in any way possible? What were the results? Take pictures of all the gels, tables, ect, and add them to the notebook. Be very strict with this: Your notebook is the support of all of your results, the guide to troubleshooting and the holy grail of what is working and not. This is your most sacred document and treat it as such!

5. Attend Lab meetings. We will get together every Thursday at noon. Bring lunch or I can get pizza for everyone. This is the space where we will be a community and discuss our results, troubleshoot our protocols, and read relevant literature. Some terms we will do result presentations, some terms we will learn how to program and bioinformatics, some terms we will talk about papers. Lab meetings are mandatory!!

6. Send me the papers/posters/important documents that will be shared widely. Since we are working in a collaborative manner, I need to provide my input (even if minimally) to any of the papers, posters, presentations that will be presented in public. This way we maintain uniformity and I can also be held responsible for the elements presented. We are a team!

